Tutorial (Day 1):

Captain: Good morning, comrade! 
Player: ...
Captain: You were chosen for this job because your valuable skills can help serve the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic.
Player: ... 
Captain: Before we start, you need to swear to always protect the interests of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic.
Player: ... 
Captain: You heard me, comrade?
Player: ... I promise to maintain official secrecy and under no circumstances will I mention anything in front of the authorities, courts or family members. I am ready to use all my abilities to protect the people and I will always fight against the enemies of our socialist homeland. I will strictly protect the state secrets. I will use all my strength and abilities and I am ready to put my life on the line in the fight for the interests of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and in fulfilling its international obligations, in the fight for the victory of peace and communism. So I swear.
Captain: See, comrade, this is how we can work together. Now listen carefully and don't waste my time. 
Captain: Every morning, you will receive instructions in the mail. Remember that it is strictly classified information. You need to operate the radio and move the troops according to the instructions. Your job is to protect the state. Any illegal movement between the borders must to be reported immediately. Do you understand?
Player: Yes, Captain. 
Captain: Good. Sometimes, you might need to solve other problems, but I will leave that for another day. Now, focus on this: after you receive a message from the radio, you have to take the map and move the troops between sectors to defend the borders. 
Captain: Remember that all your actions have consequences. 

----------
Letter: 
Hey... comrade, it's me... Fero... it's been a awhile, I hope you're doing well, and your wife as well. 
You know... I heard somewhere you got that job... at the borders... you know... you think you could do me a favor? 
Tomorrow, around 10 in the morning... Do you think you could do that for me? Comrade, I would be forever grateful. Please... 
----------
Radio - 3 revolutionaries:
1: .... The only solution is .... the troops must get out of here ..... Everyone knows they're not telling the truth .... the government ...... we need to fight for freedom ..... Tomorrow at 13:30 .... be careful .... 
2: .... better to die for freedom .... than be a prisoner all the days of your life .... don't forget in two days... exactly at noon 
3: .... the revolution is close... the fight for freedom must go on, until our country is free and peaceful, we cannot rest .... stronger than fear is the desire to fight for freedom .... the last one is tomorrow ... wait for my signal at noon 
----------
Radio - 3 Romanians: 
1: It is time for communism to fall... I will kill every single red bastard if I have to - Focus on the plan, Andrei - I know Mihai, but I can't .... We fight to set us free! - Remember the plan, it was confirmed for tomorrow at 9 in the morning. 
2: Down with the dictators! Death to the criminals! - Petre - Confirm the plans! - Yes, Mihai, all according to the plan, in two days 14:00. 
3: Andrei, the weapons? - Yes, the army is ready - The soviets will rot in hell. Tomorrow at 11:00. 
----------
Letter - 3 high-ranking informators, they have the information about the union and want to escape 
First instructions in the morning:
Comrade, 
our spies gathered information about the potential enemies. DO NOT LET these people pass the border. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES. Report them immediately. Protect the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. DESCRIPTION: MEN, 47 YEARS OLD, 52 YEARS OLD, 54 YEARS OLD, THEY WORK IN THE AUTHORITIES. 
Next days:
1st Letter: 
Dear comrade, 
I was called today at 14:20 to pass the border due to undisclosed classified reasons. I have the confirmation from the Foreman. 
Lieutenant Vladimir B.  

2nd Letter:
Dear comrade, 
I really admire your work and everything you do to protect our socialist homeland. I hope you will understand that I have to urgently travel abroad and I would like to request to pass the borders tomorrow at 15:30. 
With respect, 
Major Alexander F. 

3rd Letter:
Comrade, 
by the order of the Captain, I have to attend urgent matters and pass the borders tomorrow together with a few of my men at 10:40. I hope you _understand_. 
H. P. 
----------
Letter in the evening: 
Good day to you, comrade. I have a special request for you. I can promise you certain level of protection from my people if you can help me with something specific. Tomorrow 9:25 there is an operation at the borders. I need your help. Please, I know you can help us. What could possibly go wrong? 
- Jan. 

Next day: 
This is me, Ivan... I sent you letter yesterday evening... You remember, right? Right? You are supposed to let me pass the border. You know, I have some power in certain circles, this will not damage you, it can only benefit you. I have done this so many times before. You don't need to worry about anything. Just let me go. 
----------
Letter - 2 nurses
1st Letter: Good morning dear comrade, 
I am a nurse at the Surgical department. I have a call to provide my help to the soviet forces. I have a confirmation from the General and my supervisor. I need to pass today at 16:00. 
Ivana R. 
2nd Letter: Good morning dear comrade, 
this is Ivana R., I am writing you again. I hope you can understand the medical emergencies and the need to protect our Socialist Republic. A nurse, Magdalena, that was working with me, was also called to provide help. The medical shortage is very serious and this is a very urgent matter. I hope you can understand. She would kindly request to pass the border today at 15:40. We don't want any troubles. We just want to help. 
Ivana R. 
----------
Letter - Courier "smuggler"
Comrade, 
My name is Oleg P. and I work as a trader. I am passing through for business matters. The Captain has been aware of me, we have met before. And you know, he doesn't mind... the situation is only beneficial for him... Do you understand? 
If you let me pass the borders today at 14:15, I can promise you will benefit too, and maybe we could start a long-term partnership. 
What do you think?
Oleg P. 
----------
Letter - Family 
Hello dear Peter, 
how have you been? And your wife? I am happy for you, I heard you have a good job and place to live, it seems like they take a good care of you. I always knew you would do great things, with your talents and skills. Ever since you were a kid, you were an extraordinary one, I have to say. Always a good student, exemplary son, a good friend, hard-working person... and kind... You have always been nothing but kind to our family. When I was a kid, and my father drunk, and you stood up to him, I will never forget that. It was one of the bravest and kindest things someone has ever done for me. 
My father, he died recently. I didn't want to attend the funeral, but I did, and I kept remembering the life we had as kids and it made me think of you. 
I never had to ask for your help, because you always helped us without expecting anything in return. But I am asking now, please forgive me for asking you for help, it is the only time I am asking you, I promise you that. I promise we will never bother you again. 
My husband hasn't been doing great. Ever since the accident with the Soviets, he hasn't really recovered. It's been very difficult. Every day is a fight for life. I try to stay hopeful and believe that it will improve, but when? And hope? And how does that help us right now? Hope will not feed us and pay for us.  
Peter, please, help us leave, please be kind to us one more time, help save two lives. And maybe more. 
We're ready, if you can help us, tomorrow at 12:45. 
With love, 
your friend Elena. 
----------
Letter - State Security
Comrade, 
My name is Petr B., I work for the State Security and the intelligence. There has been a reported activity that needs to be investigated... The party requested me to act immediately.  
Let me pass the border today at 10:30. 
I hope you can understand that if I fail to investigate the activity, you might have a part in it too. 
Alojz B. 
----------
Newspaper:

The local bus collision with the military vehicles 
2 lives lost

Our statement: The only solution - departure of the troops

Healhcare collapsing? The lack of nurses in the country is complicating healthcare operations. 

To all people in Czechoslovakia: Keep calm and carry on. 

Betrayed by those who we trusted the most. 

Counter-revolutionaries in CSSR?

We are with you - We will be with you - We trust you 

Do not let yourself be deceived by the traitors of the Slovak and Czech people

The president is negotiating with the Soviet Union

From the pharmacy: due to the lack of powdered milk Sunar, they introduced sales only upon confirmation by a pediatrician

On the road between Trencin and Bratislava, civil workers take away transistor receivers from citizens to prevent them from listening to free stations.

Doctors and nurses on strike 

No weapons - we refuse any collaboration with the occupying forces, our weapons will be help in our hands 

What is your opinion on the occupation of our territory by the troops of the Warsaw Pact?
Emil H., member of the National Theatre: I don't have any opinion. Maybe in the future, this will be funny. But right now? Tragedy. 
Jan P., professor: I am surprised, I don't think anyone expected this. 
MuDr. Anton B.: Today at our surgery department when we heard what happened, everyone stood up and cried. A lot of our patients left and went home, unless the treatment was neccessary. My personal opinion? Occupation is not the way to solve problems between countries. 


Do not provoke the occupants, stay at work, stay active, show support in legal ways, continue working! 
After reading this, hand it to the next person! 

Currently missing goods are secured by all means. We urge all citizens to be responsible when making purchases. Help normalize life at workplaces even during a difficult situation.

On Friday: One hour general protest strike. 

We decided to commemorate International Women's Day. At the faculty, we wanted to prepare a gift for female students, but the employee of the dean's office, on the dean's order, eliminated the attempt as immoral and offensive to women.
We don't know what was immoral and offensive, but we apologize to all the girls and women at the faculty that we insulted.
Editorial office.

April 1st: A rich source of oil, but of very poor quality, gushed out in eastern Slovakia. The government plans to use this deposit and build a plant for oil processing on the site.
April 2nd: We deny everything. It was about a damage to the "Družba" oil pipeline.

Soviet exploitation by means of foreign trade.
Gasoline CSSR 	West
		 123,0 	65,6

----------
Endings:
1. Congratulations, you showed yourself to be an exemplary soviet citizen. You will continue in your work. Glory to the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. 

2. You have been arrested and you will be sent into the forced labour camp. You betrayed your own people, your family, your country and your homeland. 

3. The Soviets decided to remove the troops after negotations, but with a warning. Next time, any attempts to deviate from the socialism may have far more serious consequences. 

4. 1989 - The demonstration on 17 November 1989 led to the events known as the Velvet Revolution. It marked a fundamental democratization turn in Czechoslovakia. 

5. 1989 - The Romanian Revolution 
The violent civil unrest led to the and execution of longtime Romanian Communist Party. It was also the last removal of a Marxist–Leninist government in a Warsaw Pact country during the events of 1989, and the only one that violently overthrew a country's leadership and executed its leader; according to estimates, over one thousand people died and thousands more were injured.

6. The revolution was successful and after the series of events and protests, the Soviet Union dissolved.